---
title: Terminology
weight: 1
---

## Terminology used in this document 

datum 
: A specific value, encoded in a particular way, that travels through the data pipeline.

config.yaml 
: A file (potentially with a different name) used by the data pipeline to allow users to override default pipeline behaviour. See the File API specification for more details. 

metadata.yaml 
: A file used by the data pipeline to describe available data files, listing their associated metadata. See the File API specification for more details. 

access.yaml 
: A file (potentially with a different name) generated by the data pipeline API to record file access. See the File API specification for more details. 

## Current scheme 

### Metadata 

data_product 
: Identifies which kind of quantity a datum represents (e.g. “human/mixing-matrix”). Path-formatted to permit structure in the filename scheme (defined below). The desired data_product is typically specified in model code, and it is a core part of the data identifiers used in config.yaml, metadata.yaml, and access.yaml. 

version 
: A semver identifying a version of a data_product (the file API will select the most recent version if this is not specified). 

component 
: Identifies a part of a data_product. 

filename 
: Specifies the path to a file, typically relative to the data root. Only required on read, and typically inferred from metadata.yaml. 

extension 
: Specifies the extension of a file. Required on write to generate a standard filename. Typically provided by a datatype API. 

run_id 
: Specifies a unique identifier for a model run. Required on write to generate a standard filename, typically generated by the file API. 

verified_hash 
: Specifies a "verified good” SHA1 hash for a file. Used by the file API to verify file contents. Typically defined in metadata.yaml. 

calculated_hash 
: Specifies the SHA1 hash computed by the file API for a file. Typically only defined in access.yaml. 

max_warning 
: Specifies the maximum known warning level for a particular datum. Could be used by the file API to filter “bad” data (currently not supported). Typically defined in metadata.yaml. 

### Filenames 

{data root}/{data_product}.../{run_id}.{extension} 

e.g. “{data root}/human/mixing-matrix/12345.h5” 

## Alternative information 

This scheme attempts to distinguish other information we may want, but is not currently implemented… 

### Metadata 

source 
: Identifies the part of the data pipeline that is the source for a given datum. Typically specified in config.yaml. 

quantity 
: Identifies which kind of quantity a datum represents (e.g. “human/mixing-matrix”). Path-formatted to permit structure in the filename scheme (defined below). The desired quantity is typically specified in model code, and it is a core part of the data identifiers used in config.yaml, metadata.yaml, and access.yaml. 

extension 
: Specifies the extension of a file. Required on write to generate a standard filename. Typically provided by a datatype API. 

run_id 
: Specifies a unique identifier for a model run. Required on write to generate a standard filename, typically generated by the file API. 

format 
: Identifies how a datum is formatted on disk – related to but independent from the extension. Typically provided by a datatype API. Generally, we expect to be able to infer an extension from a format. 

### Filenames 

{data root}/{source}/{quantity}.../{run_id}.{extension} 

e.g. “{data root}/simple_network_sim/human/mixing-matrix/12345.h5” 
