---
title: Terminology
weight: 3
---

# Terminology used in this document

datum
: A specific value, encoded in a particular way, that travels through the data pipeline.

config.yaml
: A file (potentially with a different name) used by the data pipeline to allow users to override default pipeline behaviour. See the File API specification for more details.

metadata.yaml
: A file used by the data pipeline to describe available data files, listing their associated metadata. See the File API specification for more details.

access.yaml
: A file (potentially with a different name) generated by the data pipeline API to record file access. See the File API specification for more details.

## Metadata

data_product
: Identifies which kind of quantity a datum represents (e.g. “human/mixing-matrix”). Path-formatted to permit structure in the filename scheme (defined below). The desired data_product is typically specified in model code, and it is a core part of the data identifiers used in config.yaml, metadata.yaml, and access.yaml. 

version
: A semver identifying a version of a data_product (the file API will select the most recent version if this is not specified).

component
: Identifies a part of a data_product.

filename
: Specifies the path to a file, typically relative to the data root. Only required on read, and typically inferred from metadata.yaml.

extension
: Specifies the extension of a file. Required on write to generate a standard filename. Typically provided by a datatype API.

run_id
: Specifies a unique identifier for a model run. Required on write to generate a standard filename, typically generated by the file API.

verified_hash
: Specifies a "verified good” SHA1 hash for a file. Used by the file API to verify file contents. Typically defined in metadata.yaml.

calculated_hash
: Specifies the SHA1 hash computed by the file API for a file. Typically only defined in access.yaml.

max_warning
: Specifies the maximum known warning level for a particular datum. Could be used by the file API to filter “bad” data (currently not supported). Typically defined in metadata.yaml.

## Filenames

{data root}/{data_product}.../{run_id}.{extension}

*e.g.* `{data root}/human/mixing-matrix/12345.h5`
